0 - The Fool: The Fool arcanum represents a young enthusiastic man wearing luxury clothes, standing close to the edge of a cliff, with a dog that can represent our animal nature.He does not seem bound to the limits of our terrestrial world, and his eyes are looking up to the divine and ce-lestial planes, showing his aspiration to rise up spiritually even when you sometimes need to jump into the unknown.He is ready for it, because he is supported by his conviction that Divine Providence will help him to improve his human condition.Clearly numbered 0 in the RWS, this arcanum sometimes has no printed number at all, leading  to  several  divergent  interpretations  (some  tarot  scholars  put  it  in  a  different  place in the succession of arcana). The sun that shines behind him is meant to illuminate the path that should be taken, and protect him as he works towards his goals. Anyway, the Fool represents the arrival of the irrational in the life of the person who draws this card. In the many common interpretation, the Fool represents wandering, folly, spontaneity, and delirium... In  some  drawings,  connected  to  more  negative  cards,  it  can  also  represent  incoher-ence, madness, doubts, and instincts or emotions that are out of control.In that case, the Fool acts as an amplifier and negative card in every aspect: Love, Work, Health, Money, Luck...It is then a sign of confusion and indecision that will affect ongoing or upcoming pro-jects. Likewise, the Querent might be full of new ideas that might make it harder to make an informed decision. Others see the Fool as the ultimate symbol of supreme initiation. With this interpreta-tion he is the true Initiate, reaching for Ultimate knowledge. With this interpretation, in a reading it might indicate that the subject of the reading is about to undergo deep spiritual changes, or is standing at the crossroads of something important in their life. The Fool will bring them into a world of spirituality, where they may find Knowledge out of most people’s reach.With this interpretation, the Fool symbolizes a need for freedom and independence. It indicates a positive evolution on a path of wisdom. The Fool will allow you to achieve both spiritual and material aspirations.
I - The Magician: The  Magician  is  represented  by  the  silhouette  of  a  young  man  wearing  the  robes  of  a  mage,  seer,  or  clairvoyant... He looks like Apollo and is as beautiful as the Greek god.His head (and mind) is crowned with a floating, rotat-ed  8  symbol  that  symbolizes  infinity,  life,  and  divine  will. The  belt  he  wears  around  his  waist  represents  a  ser-pent biting its own tail, a common representation of eternity.The  Magician  holds  a  magic  wand  in  his  right  hand,  pointed  up  towards  the  Sky,  while  his  left  hand  is  pointing  at  the  Earth.  In  this,  he  acts  as  an  interme-diary between the celestial and terrestrial worlds, and echoes the famous occult saying, “As above, so below”. With  this  gesture,  the  Magician  indicates  his  mission,  aiming  to  share  celestial  grace with Humankind while helping them keep their feet on the ground.The  Magician  symbolizes  sharing  the  powers  of  Will  with  Humankind,  so  that  it  might achieve its true purpose on earth.On the table before him you can see the symbols of the four suits that compose the minor arcana of the tarot (the Sword, Cup, Pentacle, and Wand) representing the four natural elements (Air, Water, Earth, and Fire). The Magician can combine them any way he wants to.The  garden  of  roses  and  lilies  under  the  table  symbolizes  the  materialization  of  your ideas and imagination on the terrestrial plane.The card itself symbolizes the presence of the Divine within you, and how impor-tant it is to unite the celestial and the terrestrial within you. It means that you must achieve unity between all the separate parts of your being (physical, psychologi-cal, and spiritual).The Magician is among the positive major arcana. Its presence in a drawing usu-ally forecasts favorable events. It symbolizes new beginnings, initiation, and team spirit. It is the triumph of mind over matter, and a sign of great willpower and skill. An upright Magician will be a positive sign most of the time, in any context.The Magician is an extremely interesting arcanum because it means that you are un-der the most favorable conditions to succeed in any new project... provided you adhere to a certain mental discipline and think before you act or you might lose focus!The Magician shows you which way to go, but you need to do the walking, and then make the right decisions. The cards won’t do it for you. The Magician opens new opportunities and grants you a certain mastery over the unknown and the unexpected. Since it is, by definition, quite unpredictable, you should do a lot of thinking before you commit to any specific course.
II - The High Priestess: The  High  Priestess  is  sitting  with  a  moon  crescent  at  her feet and a crown with two horns and a globe on her head. She is wearing a sun cross around her neck. The High Priestess holds a scroll in her hands, with the word  “Tora”,  representing  the  ultimate  Great  Secret  Law, one of the sacred texts of Judaism.This sacred scroll is partially hidden under the toga worn by the High Priestess, which means that some principles are clear and obvious while others require initiation or personal efforts to be discovered.The High Priestess is sitting between the two pillars (one black, one white) of the entrance of the Secret Temple of Knowledge. The entrance itself is hidden behind a veil embroidered with pome-granates and palm trees.The High Priestess wears thin and flowing clothes, symbolizing light and divine grace.The High Priestess is a symbol for the Occult Science you need to acquire in order to be granted access to the Temple of Knowledge, also called the Temple of Isis.She represents a Spiritual Fiancée and the Divine Mother guarding the door or en-trance to the Temple of Knowledge. She is the Queen of Light and the symbol of the Moon, breastfed by the Great Supreme Mother.The High Priestess is also a symbol of Shekinah, the presence of God among us in Jewish theology.The High Priestess is a positive arcanum symbolizing the importance of thought dur-ing a slow setup for a project. If you have the High Priestess in your drawing, it will allow you to reach your goals, but it will require more efforts than the Magician arcanum would.The High Priestess is also a card that stresses the importance of intuition, inspiration, patience, and stability.In a professional context, it will put any desire for a raise, a promotion, or a different job... on the right track! The High Priestess asks for a long time spent thinking about any decision before you make it. It also indicates that your ongoing project will be achieved, but not in the short term.The danger that should be avoided is to isolate yourself to make your decisions, to be content with your loneliness and live in seclusion. Do not make any decision on your own. Ask the people involved in your project for input. Do not make every decision for them.
III - The Empress: The Empress is represented by a majestic and regal look-ing woman sitting down and wearing luxury clothes rep-resenting the daughter of Heaven and Earth. She wears a crown in the shape of a tiara on her head, a sign of royalty, with twelve star-shaped jewels. The shield on the left side bears the sign of venus, a circle with an inverted  cross,  which  also  represents  femininity.  She  holds a scepter with the globe in her right hand.You can see a growing cornfield at her feet, and on the right side there is a forest, with a river flowing between the trees.She symbolizes the Garden of Eden, or Heaven on Earth, but also according to some interpretations; desire, or the Sanctum sanctorum, the holy of holies, in other words: the most sacred part of a temple where only the high priest is allowed to enter.The Empress card represents being granted access to true knowledge, truth beyond appearances, a path of access to genuine life, coming from the heart.The Empress is an extremely favorable arcanum. This is a very good sign in every do-main: love, finances, health, material comfort, luck, money...The Empress is a sign of sharp intelligence, creativity, and ambition. It facilitates mak-ing your projects and ideas come true.The Empress indicated that your ideas should finally be realized in the material plane. This is not a time for reflection, but for successful action driven by intelligence. Your mind will be full of original ideas.  The Empress is also a sign of fertility and growth, so in a romantic context, it may indi-cate the arrival of a long lasting love, a pregnancy, or a favorable period to conceive and have children. The  Empress  is  the  upcoming  materialization  of  your  ongoing  projects:  professional  contracts, association with other people, finding a job, intellectual achievements, so-cial recognition, or political success.
IV - The Emperor: The  Emperor  wears  a  crown  on  his  head,  a  symbol  of  imperial  power,  holds  an  ankh  cross-shaped  scepter  in  his right hand, and a globe in his left hand. He is sitting upright in a majestic posture.The backrest and armrests on the throne are decorated with ram’s heads. The Emperor incarnates earthly power and symbolizes action and virility.He  is  the  masculine  mirror  of  the  Empress,  symbol  of  feminine power. He is trying to lift the veil of Knowledge, also called the veil of Isis.Just  like  the  Empress,  the  Emperor  symbolizes  power  and the potential for Humankind to rise up. He also rep-resents the importance of strength of character and willpower to achieve your projects.He symbolizes divine royalty and might. He indicates that Humankind must rise spirit-ually  through  their  intellectual  abilities,  set  free  from  their  animal  side,  which  means  rising above their emotions and mastering their primal instincts.The Emperor is an arcanum that tells you that you can achieve your projects if you act with authority and leadership. This will provide you with success in any domain; love, finances, health, material comfort, luck, money...With the Emperor you will achieve your goals if you are confident, realistic, and have a dominant spirit. This arcanum requires a full commitment. The Emperor implies that you need to affirm yourself in your domain and move forward by making a show of inner and outer strength.The Emperor advises you not to waste much time in making your decisions. Even if you should take other people’s advice and opinions into account and avoid any isolation, here the arcanum implies that you need to make your decisions without wasting any time. Your projects will have a high chance of coming true if you are steadfast, confident, and realistic. You will have to work hard to achieve your goals, and not give up until you eventually achieve victory in your project. When you draw the Emperor, you should learn the lessons from past challenges, stop lamenting your situation, and stride boldly towards the future. To succeed, you will need to move beyond soft, weak, and indecisive people and leave them behind – without crushing them either – for they would only slow you down.
V - The Hierophant: The Hierophant wears the Triple Crown on his head, sit-ting between two pillars of the Temple, the seat of Su-preme Knowledge.The  Triple  Crown  is  a  very  important  esoteric  symbol,  because it highlights the importance of the number 3 in several  spiritual  beliefs  and  religions.  This  number  can  also symbolize the three aspects of God.As such, you have the Holy Trinity in Christianity (the Fa-ther, Son, and Holy Ghost), or the holy trinity of the gods Brahma, vishnu, and Shiva in Hinduism.He is using his left hand to perform a gesture represent-ing  the  difference  between,  the  exoteric  (or  unveiled  meaning of Supreme Knowledge) and the esoteric (hidden meaning that must be dis-covered through personal initiation) aspects of knowledge.There are two crossed keys at the feet of the Hierophant, and two kneeling priests ech-oing the earlier aspect of this arcanum as the Pope like in the Marseille deck.The Hierophant represents material power used in the exoteric knowledge clearly re-vealed within a religion, where the High Priestess represented the esoteric knowledge that had to be accessed through initiation.It is often said that the Hierophants both manifests and preaches literal teachings, the most obvious reading of religious texts found in holy books (like Judaism, Christianity, or Islam).The Hierophant is tasked with overseeing holy writings, personalizing all the positive aspects of a tradition or religion, and to ensure the triumph of Good over Evil.He  is  the  supreme  authority  of  his  tradition,  and  the  keeper  of  Knowledge.  He  is  a  channel for Divine Grace, a Shepherd tasked with steering Humanity towards Good.The Hierophant is a symbol of a middle-aged man, of wisdom, and of the Ancient pro-viding wise advice. The arcanum bears the number 5, an odd number that is a sign of movement. The Hi-erophant is respectable. You listen to his advice and instructions and you follow them.He protects ongoing projects by granting his blessing. He provides mighty protection and ensures favorable conditions for the fulfillment of your projects. His benevolence and wisdom facilitate the fulfillment of all your projects.Drawing this arcanum should bolster your confidence in your own abilities. One of the core elements to a successful life is believing in yourself, or you can’t achieve anything. 17The Hierophant tells you that you can start new endeavors with confidence. It does not mean that you won’t have anything to do, but that all your actions will have positive effects that will be crowned with success.The Hierophant has a positive influence on matters related to work or health, slightly less so for matters related to love or material comfort.The Hierophant indicates that your mind will be your best asset to succeed. It also in-dicates that you will have the appropriate talent to see the bigger picture, take things into consideration, and make the right decisions. However, you will not overcome hostile forces opposing your success unless you can show your righteousness, without trying to crush others on your way.There is no merit in humiliating an opponent or adversary, it only breeds resentment that will eventually find its way back to you!The Hierophant gives his assent to unions and associations. He offers a way out of a conflict. He elevates those who know how to work with him astutely.
VI - The Lovers: The two lovers look like the representation of Adam and Eve in the Bible before Eve ate the Apple, lead-ing to their exile from Eden.The  sun  is  shining  above  them  at  the  zenith,  and  a  winged being hovers in the Heavens with open arms. The Tree of Knowledge of Good and Evil can be seen behind  the  woman.  This  scene  happens  before  she  plucks  the  apple  and  eats  it  under  advise  from  the  Serpent,  symbol  of  Evil,  wrapped  around  the  tree  trunk. The Tree of Life with twelve fruits can be seen behind the man.The two lovers represent youth, innocence, and pure and disinterested love, before any earthly sexual desire of flesh.This arcanum symbolizes earthly love between people, and the fact that men and women are constantly facing an inner struggle between vice and virtue.The Woman symbolizes desire and attraction to material life. She is a symbol of temptation for Man, the reason behind the fall from Eden, but also the representa-tion of his redemption. According to the author of the Rider-Waite, the Fall was not random or a result of the Woman’s will, but was the manifestation of a secret divine plan, as looking for God’s forgiveness through redemption will let Humankind discover its own nature.Just like many other Tarot arcana, you should not put your trust in that card’s name to draw conclusions regarding its actual meaning, because drawing this arcanum is not necessarily positive, particularly on a romantic context!The Lovers arcanum can also symbolize hesitation, passivity, or indecision for the person concerned by the reading, should they have a hard time making a deci-sion, or hesitate between several solutions. This  card  expresses  a  kind  of  uncertainty,  a  challenge  with  no  obvious  solution  because  there  are  various  possibilities  that  might  offer  a  way  to  overcome  that  challenge, but none seem clearly superior to the others.The Lovers are rather negative for anything related to material comfort, your job, and they are rather neutral when it comes to romances and health. This arcanum is a sign of a wait-and-see attitude, doubts, weakness, and incon-sistencies.  It  symbolizes  a  kind  of  passivity  in  the  way  they  behave  rather  then 19spending themselves thin.Someone drawing the Lovers might undergo slight emotional discomfort as they make a decision, one way or another. They should avoid making a decision in urgency under the yoke of emotions, be-cause it won’t be a good one, either for your family or your loved ones. This might trigger disastrous consequences for your family and friends. This arcanum is often drawn by people who don’t have enough experience in life yet, not knowing which way to turn, which makes their advice so potentially dan-gerous. This is the case for people who are currently evolving, subject to changes in every aspect. With experience, their decisions will be more mature.The  constant  dance  of  hesitation  is  gnawing  at  these  beings  that  have,  or  can  develop, a fragile health, both physically and emotionally, and also suffer from a troubled romantic situation.When you draw the Lovers it usually means that you have a decision to make, and you need to make it fast either way. The longer you wait before you make your decision, the worse the situation will get.
VII - The Chariot: The  Chariot  arcanum  represents  a  young  and  proud  prince. He is holding a sword and stands on a chariot drawn by two sphinxes, a black and a white one.The  young  prince  is  wearing  two  faces  in  a  crescent  moon on his shoulders, representing Urim and Thum-mim.These two symbols are drawn from the Jewish tradi-tion,  symbolizing  the  gift  of  revelation  of  Supreme  Knowledge granted to the young prince, which in turn must share it with humankind.The Urim and Thummim also indicate that the young prince masters all earthly and human knowledge, in every domain. The  presence  of  the  two  sphinxes  indicates  that  the  young  prince  managed  to  solve the sphinx’s riddle, granting access to Supreme Knowledge and truths that are out of reach from most mortal beings.According to Greek mythology, Oedipus was the son of king Laius and queen Jo-casta, and had to solve the riddle of the Sphinx, a creature with a lion body and a woman’s chest, to avoid being devoured by the beast. The  question  is:  “What  walks  on  four  feet  in  the  morning,  two  in  the  afternoon  and three at night?” and the answer is: a man, who walks on four legs when he is a toddler, on two legs as an adult, and three when old and using a cane.By answering the riddle of the Sphinx, the prince shows that sometimes you need logic to overcome certain challenges in life.The Chariot is an auspicious arcanum, a symbol of success, willpower, action, courage, and power. If you draw the Chariot you can undertake a project without worrying. However, you need to act because things will not happen on their own if you want to achieve your goals.The Chariot highlights your vast potential for success, urging you to express it.You will meet your goals through your courage, pugnacity, and willpower. Do not throw the towel and you will successfully overcome any challenge on your path. Don’t forget that everything is in constant motion, and that a positive phase could be transitory, eventually replaced by a more complicated period... and so on and so forth. So make the most of your current chances and enjoy the time of favorable conditions provided by the Chariot.Do  not  worry  about  any  obstacle  or  challenge  you  need  to  overcome,  because  they are much easier to deal with than you might expect. Do not let yourself be influenced by your emotions, which provide you with a dis-torted image of the real importance of your problem through a magnifying glass.You  will  overcome  every  obstacle  far  more  easily  than  you  might  think  because  you benefit from the energy of the Chariot.Among the major arcana, the Chariot is a sign that important changes are to be expected in certain areas of your life.You will endure strong waves of emotions that you will need to handle and control if you want to move forward. Do not hesitate to express your creativity through any  form  of  art  in  order  to  materialize  the  strong  flow  of  emotions  that  will  run  through you.You will meet your goals if you work on your memories of your personal history. The Chariot facilitates the rise of memories and research. An arcanum of move-ment, the Chariot can also herald a holiday or business trip, or moving house... but always with a favorable outcome for you.
VIII - Strength: The arcanum of Strength represents a young woman try-ing  to  close  a  lion’s  mighty  jaw.  The  symbol  of  eternity  (the rotated 8) hovers above her head.It won’t be too hard for her to do it since the lion, receiv-ing a flower necklace, is looking at her with kind eyes.This arcanum represents moral strength more than pure physical  strength,  and  can  overcome  any  challenge,  granting access to divine mysteries and Supreme Knowledge, parting the veil of illusions hiding the truth of the real world.The flower necklace represents divine Law being easier to apply on earth if it is accepted freely, and applied with conviction.The lion represents the passions and emotions that need to be handled before you can materialize divine law upon the terrestrial worldThe arcanum of Strength is a symbol of power, will, energy, and courage. It provides you with enough self-control to overcome your obstacles and problems. It ensures that your projects will be successful. Strength is a positive arcanum to achieve success in any domain: love, health, work, or the acquisition of material goods...The Strength arcanum grants you the energy you need to come on top of any situation. It will lead you to victory provided that you are fully dedicated to the goal you have set for yourself It won’t be too hard for you to achieve your goals, since this arcanum will provide you with great physical and mental vitality, great self-control, and confidence in your own abilities. Strength is particularly auspicious for jobs with a competitive spirit: business, advertis-ing, independent doctors and lawyers... Anyone drawing this card can be sure of their own inner strength, that they will triumph on their own over any obstacle or problem on earth. Strength is the card of vitality, good health, and great mental and physical shape. It highlights a taste for taking risks, and of fighting against someone who will drive them to constantly further their own limits. That person does not like things that are too easy to get. They are motivated by things that are hard to obtain. The journey matters more than the final end goal. 23This is one of the best cards you can draw in a reading to get whatever you need on a spiritual level. Strength highlights a desire to master your own destiny, a need to choose the path you will take instead of obeying the whims of fate. Confidence is a great way to reduce or even annihilate fear. Strength shows a will to be  a  winner,  the  impulse  to  overcome  adversity.  It  lest  you  conquer  new  territories,  figuratively (overcoming your own weaknesses) and literally (winning some sort of competition, securing new clients or market shares, being better than the competition...)
IX - The Hermit: Here  the  Hermit  is  represented  by  an  old  man  holding  a lamp with a shining star inside. The Hermit stands on a hill and shines his lamp for the entire world, symboliz-ing his reaching a state of supreme Knowledge, implying that anyone can do it too if they really want it.The Hermit represents a card symbolizing your being in a phase where you can reach your goals and make your dreams come true by looking for the light – and the an-swers you need – within you, drawing from the lessons of experience that you will collect in time.The Hermit’s cloak also implies that truth is often hidden behind the veil of appearances, and that it can come into the light thought the lamp of truth. You need to look for it as hard as you can, because divine mysteries are often hard to access for common people.The Hermit is the arcanum of solitude, perseverance, discretion, and prudence. Draw-ing this card will usually mean slowing down the pace of ongoing projects and achievements.He represents taking a short break away from your hopes and dreams to focus on the big picture. If you have the Hermit in a tarot reading, you should be careful and keep your eyes open in anything you undertake.You might know a period of isolation and loneliness. This might trigger some mental blocks, weariness about wasted efforts and energy, and even send you feelings of sadness and discouragement!This will be a rough period, because extra delays in a project might hamper or even completely erase the initial enthusiasm you felt. Consequently, you will need to work even harden that usual to meet your goals. This time will nonetheless allow you to develop the virtues of patience and reflection. This will grant you greater wisdom if you know how to learn your lesson from the up-coming trials. Once again, even if some of the major arcana might seem negative at first sight, remember that there is no notion of Good or Evil in the Tarot. Things are as they are, that’s it. Any emotion you choose to associate with some words, thoughts, or actions comes from you. Failure is usually a better teacher than success, because you get to re-evaluate your-self. Likewise, if the Hermit might look like a negative arcanum at first sight, it is not the case if you know how to interpret it and make the most of the advice it has to share.So anyone drawing this card in a reading will end up on a quest for wisdom. They might feel lonely for a while, but they will end up stronger than they used to be. They will have to make a decision between being open to the world, or isolated like... the Hermit! The Hermit always brings a positive development to the card that comes before it, in hindsight. A rather negative card meaning might be softened through the use of care-ful planning and thought.
X - The Wheel of Fortune: According to the author of the Rider-Waite-Smith deck, the inspiration behind this arcanum comes from ancient Egypt. The snake represents Typhon, the monster found in Greek mythology, on the left of the Wheel of Fortune.The  symbol  of  the  snake  can  nonetheless  be  found  in  many  traditions  because  the  four  creatures  at  the  four  corners  of  the  card  are  also  drawn  from  it:  the  winged  lion and winged bull at the bottom, and the angel and eagle at the top.These  four  mythical  creatures  are  quoted  in  a  parable  from the Ancient Testament in the Book of Ezekiel, a famous Bible prophet.In a vision, he saw divine creatures: a winged lion, winged bull, an angel, and an eagle. They represent the various aspects that God uses to manifest before humankind in the Bible.Apart  from  these  four  divine  creatures,  you  can  notice  a  sphinx  at  the  top  of  the  wheel, symbolizing the balance that must be found in all things, and the immutable aspect of truth.The Wheel of Fortune is a symbol of life constantly in motion, and that growth requires movement and not immobility.The Wheel of Fortune has no direct connection to the notion of financial wealth. It indicates movement and upcoming opportunities. This is a dynamic arcanum symbolizing managing risk and taking the initiative. If you draw this card, you are urged to be bold, because the Wheel of Fortune has positive effects in every domain; love, money, work, health...The Wheel of Fortune is constantly spinning. It can provide solutions to all your prob-lems and let you overcome many obstacles. The Fortune in the name does not refer to wealth, but to luck. It  brings  positive  changes,  success,  and  achievements.  This  arcanum  puts  transom  chance and providence on your side. It has a positive influence on professional activities, contracts, business, travels, and the arts.Anyone drawing this arcanum should nonetheless beware the siren’s call of honors and success and make sure they do not spend more than they own. A certain carelessness can be overlooked, however, because courage, willpower and enthusiasm will let them overcome many obstacles. This  does  not  mean  that  everything  will  be  easy,  because  there  is  no  big  success  without risks and efforts. Being successful requires that you give it your best, and avoid giving up at the first sign of trouble. No one ever succeeds on the first try.Every famous person or celebrity will agree. Read biographies about famous people that you admire and you will see all the hardships they had to overcome before they became successful. If you are going through a rough patch, the Wheel of Fortune heralds a more favorable time period, or a happy conclusion to your problem. However, if you were in a favorable situation, you might brace yourself for the upcoming storm, with a few upcoming challenges that you should be able to overcome in order to have a better life.Drawing the Wheel of Fortune indicates that you should not simply rely on luck to succeed, but combine it with personal efforts.
XI - Justice: Justice is represented by a queen holding the merciless blade of justice, which can punish or reward the accused according to their merits.She sits between two pillars connected by a veil, a door-way  to  a  world  of  justice  and  balance  if  you  are  fair  to  other  people  in  your  existence  and  do  not  cause  them  harm.Justice also indicates that you can only grow through vir-tues  like  honesty  and  equity,  having  higher  aspirations,  and expressing the natural gifts you have been granted by Divine Providence. This  arcanum  symbolizes  order,  strictness,  discipline,  in  other words: Justice! The balance has been unsettled and must be restored. Justice symbolizes an upcoming decision that has to be made, but without giving in to emo-tion.Your decisions must be made according to your core beliefs, through honest reflection, regardless of consequences.If you find this arcanum in a reading, it means that you will need some courage to take responsibility for yourself, even if you have to ignore your ego and stand ready to ad-mit when you were wrong. Even if a particular decision might seem hard to make, you will reap its benefits if you hold on to your choice without fail.Justice is a positive arcanum by nature, even if its consequences might seem hard to bear sometimes. Your inner strength will be all the greater for it. Above all, do not sacrifice your conscience or your core principles to make a decision that would make it easier on your personal comfort or diminish your responsibilities, because even if you can hide from others, you cannot hide from yourself. Even if you managed to fool your audience, you would feel the pangs of your conscience should you make a hasty decision that runs against what you believe in!This card often heralds a confrontation with some institutions: public service, justice, the  authorities.  It  might  be  about  upcoming  exams  or  interviews.  It  also  deals  with  business practices, contracts, and signed agreements...Remember, if you draw this card it means that some balance has been upset, and you need to restore the harmony that was lost! 
XII - The Hanged Man: The  character  (a  man  hanging  upside  down)  and  name  (the Hanged Man) on this card might be confusing and suggest this is a negative arcanum.On the contrary, this is a rather positive sign. Indeed, a closer look unveils that the man seems to be incredibly serene, his heal glowing with a halo of light that can be  found  in  many  traditions  around  the  head  of  he-roes, popes, emperors, kings, holy people, and great mystics...Furthermore, the Hanged Man is tied to a cross shaped like a Tau, a letter in the Greek alphabet also known as Saint Anthony’s Cross, a symbol of Saint Francis of Assisi. It was used to represent a conversion to Christianity and the fulfillment of God’s will on earth.From a purely esoteric point of view, the Tau Cross is a symbol of liberation from ter-restrial shackles, and further progress on a path of spiritual growth.Likewise, the legs of the Hanged Man start to shape a swastika, a symbol of eternity in Hinduism. It is also a talisman meant to bring luck to those who wear it.The symbols combined indicate that life is a fragile thing and could be gone in a blink. When you draw this arcanum in a spread, you need to remember what life is worth, and make the most of it every day. This card in a spread also means that if you truly want to advance on your spiritual path, working diligently to that regard, then you will receive instructions from the celestial world if you know how to read the signs that you will eventually receive.Drawing the Hanged Man also indicates that it won’t be easy, however. The Hanged Man is often associated with Judas Iscariot, someone burdened with a difficult, heart-breaking task requiring important sacrifices that probably will be misunderstood my most. A similar theme can be found in the story of Odin hanging from the Yggdrasil tree to gain mystical knowledge.  The Hanged Man will facilitate your projects if you avoid being passive, inactive, and use courage and energy. This is how you will make your dreams come true. The  Hanged  Man  warns  you  that  you  will  need  to  struggle  against  resignation,  the  mental urge to give up, or your projects will end up in failure. Should someone ignore the appearance of the Hanged Man in a reading and does not even try to do something about it, they will be in a submissive position, paralyzed before they act by a force greater than they are. They will move from one failure to the next. This creates a vicious cycle that will be hard to break, a period of numerous moral and material difficulties. They will be fragile and prone to fall ill or more generally feel weak. People who do not take the Hanged Man into account in their reading will face more troubles and challenges than their current psychic and organic weakness will bear in their fight against adversity. Fortunately,  if  they  choose  to  react  they  will  see  that  they  have  enough  intellectual  resources  to  take  the  entire  situation  into  account  and  overcome  their  obstacles  by  looking at the big picture. The Hanged Man is a symbol of lack of confidence, of an upcoming period of ob-stacles  that  will  require  introspection  and  re-assessment  in  order  to  be  overcome.  It  might also herald a betrayal, a sacrifice that must be made, or any other kind of effort required for success.
XIII - Death: Do  not  be  fooled  by  appearances,  as  the  arcanum  of  Death  does  not  mean  physical  death,  but  a  state  of  change and transition from one state to another, a nec-essary evolution. This  is  probably  what  led  the  author  of  the  Rider-Waite-Smith  deck  to  avoid  the  grim  skeleton  with  a  scythe image that could be found in earlier decks like the Marseille.This  arcanum  indicated  that  everything  is  constantly  evolving, and that you need to go beyond your mortal condition to reach a higher spiritual state. This is illustrated by the banner held by the knight with a skeleton head on this arcanum: it is black, but with an embroidered rose used as a symbol of life.On the top right you can notice two pillars, with a bright and shining sun between them, symbolizing  the  light  of  truth  or  Supreme  Knowledge  that  can  be  achieved  through  personal effort.Death, here, is a mystical death that means you need to get rid of the ideas and princi-ples that drag you down and prevent your evolution, in favor of new concepts that are better suited to your spiritual growth.Just like the Hanged Man, you should not focus on this card’s name or appearance that might lead to hasty conclusions. This  card  does  not  necessarily  herald  any  catastrophe  or  dramatic  even,  unless  it  is  surrounded with other negative cards in the spread!In the major arcana, Death is a warning for great upcoming changes, or the final con-clusion of a problem. It can even often be a sign of the end of a very annoying situation. This arcanum can also indicate upcoming brutal transformations that might be hard to experience or negotiate. This card is a symbol for metamorphosis, fate, material restrictions, breaking away from the past, isolation...Death  imposes  radical  choice,  so  when  you  draw  this  arcanum  you  need  to  dive  in.  Sometimes it implies that you need to get rid of (or abandon) useless elements to bet-ter move forward. This drawing usually calls for some changes in your way of life, in the way you think, or 32in your usual behavior. You then know you have to break the routine that has lulled you to sleep and prevented you from evolving. The Death arcanum calls for intelligence, reflection, and reason in order to make the right choices without any rush, but without excessive hesitation either.This arcanum symbolizes the triumph of life over death, or even reincarnation. It hints at some hidden spiritual potential, lying dormant in your soul, which has to be awak-ened in order to move on. This is a “positive” card that calls for some in-depth transformations, as well as thor-ough introspection to find genuine solutions to a problem.Death asks you not to worry or panic when facing the essential modifications that you need to undertake if you do not want to miss out on life. A great courage is the only thing that will allow you to untangle tough situations or finally discover the true intentions of people you thought you knew well.
XIV - Temperance: The  Temperance  arcanum  is  represented  by  a  winged  angel. He is pouring the waters of life equally from one chalice  to  the  next,  calling  for  balance  in  all  things  in  order to grow on your spiritual path. Likewise,  he  has  a  foot  on  the  ground  and  one  in  the  water, strengthening the call for balance, and asking for that  balance  between  natural  elements  too,  like  Earth  and Water here.The road on the left of the card is leading towards the sun,  indicating  that  balance  will  allow  you  to  reach  spiritual enlightenment. The  angel’s  simple  garments,  a  plain  white  toga,  indi-cate that you need to get rid of all terrestrial attributes to achieve it.This allegory teaches that practicing temperance in all things lets you reach some inner balance because it lets you master all your emotions and get rid of all your negativity through the harmony of every part of your being.Temperance is an arcanum of harmony, which can restore relationships. It is a symbol of gentleness, calm, serenity, and restored balance. This card nonetheless asks for some patience to restore well-being in a troubled relationship. Indeed, often enough, solving certain problems or improving some situations require spending some time to that effect, when most people tend to be too impatient. This makes it hard to serenely deal with a tough problem. When you draw this card, you are extremely likely to get out of a difficult situation. Give it some time and keep your spirits high, especially since Temperance is favorable in every situation: Work, Love, Luck, Health...Temperance indicates reaching a balance, middle ground, or harmony in difficult situations.Improving a difficult situation requires patience, an open mind, and a certain serenity. Temperance requires a high capacity for adaptability and change, and high communi-cation skills. It all goes together. It can give you a lot of positive mental and physical energy to let you get on top of any situation and deal with changes. It forecasts new private, professional, and friendly relationships, and the birth of new projects that will end up in a better life. 34Temperance brings harmony and urges you not to make any hasty decision and give yourself enough time to think before you decide to change your ways.Temperance says that it is time to look for some harmony in every aspect of your life, striving for a full balance of your body, mind, and soul.Temperance is a very spiritual arcanum, because it implies mastery over your passions and emotions so that they do not dominate you. This  also  asks  you  to  solve  your  own  contradictions,  and  you  should  not  hesitate  to  undertake a great introspective work to that regard. Temperance says that you will know how to adapt to any situation. It will also allow you to undergo vast improvements in your relationships with your loved ones. It will grant you a sense of discernment, clearer thoughts, and great analysis skills.
XV - The Devil: The arcanum of the Devil in the Rider-Waite-Smith deck is a mix of several representations of the devil in various traditions.There is still a classic devil head with horns, with a penta-cle between them. Usually the pentacle is a sign of pro-tection but here it is inverted.In  his  right  hand,  pointing  up,  you  can  see  an  inverted  cross, the usual telltale sign for Satanists. In his left hand, the devil holds a reversed torch, a symbol of hell.The devil stands on an altar with a double chain tied to a human couple, similar to the one on the arcanum of the Lovers.These two characters are similar to those on the fifth arcanum, but this time they might represent Adam and Eve after their exile from Eden.The chain symbolizes their attachment to material life and their dependence to their animal nature, something they should try to abandon by avoiding the domination of the Devil, so that they do not become eternal slaves to the material world.The arcanum of the Devil grants you the power to dominate the material world, and symbolizes the expression of feelings of pride and selfishness.The Devil expresses the manifestation of emotions that are extremely human, and that are detrimental to your goals, such as your tendency for evil, calumny, or the urge for disorder and violence. This drawing indicates that your temptation is strong, and mainly motivated by pride and the swift fulfillment of all your desires. As hinted by its symbolism, the Devil urges you to express the darker aspects of your personality. It advocates the use of physical strength, as well as tricks, cons, and ma-nipulations of all kinds to fulfill your material and sensual desires.Someone  drawing  the  Devil  cards  unveils  that  they  are  deeply  attracted  to  purely  material needs and satisfactions, the pleasure of the senses up to the extreme. That person is also drawn to domination and power over others. They have fewer scruples and will do anything to achieve their goals.But the Devil also means that this person has a great vitality, a great sexual appetite, and an uncanny dynamism that is rarely fully satisfied. This person is also gifted with great intelligence and great sensitivity, leaning to endless self-questioning and deep unquenched lack of satisfaction.That person can manage to sate these desires, but there will be a price for it. The Devil is  associated  with  earthly  pleasures  of  all  kinds,  and  especially  sexuality  –  including  some of its more sordid aspects – or the temptation to fall into vice. That person is focused on their own pleasure, how much they will get from their actions without  worrying  about  the  potential  harm  that  might  cause.  They  want  immediate  satisfaction regardless of consequences. The Devil arcanum sees that person’s desires like hard drugs that are hard to control. They  might  fall  into  temptation’s  clutches,  driven  to  excesses  of  passion,  sensuality,  and a thirst for power, corruption, and seduction.
XVI - The Tower: There  can  be  numerous  interpretations  to  the  Tower  arcanum  according  to  the  author  of  the  Rider-Waite-Smith tarot deck.It seems that one of the most accurate ones is about a representation  of  the  fall  of  the  human  spirit,  “falling  from grace” both literally and figuratively, when they understand that all the material principles they rely on are nothing but illusions.At the end of the material fall, the mind can then rise up spiritually through the steady expression and incar-nation  of  the  supreme  Truth  hidden  behind  the  false  appearances of the temptations of material life.Another interpretation defended by A.E. Waite himself claims that the fall represents the fall of Humankind when it gets lost in earthly temp-tations and lets evil take over.This representation also means that life has no meaning unless it is based on sincere and honest values aiming to build the kingdom of Good on Earth. If that person gives in to their egotism, pride, and the expression of their animal na-ture, they will be responsible for their own decline and will hasten their own fall.The Tower is a negative arcanum in almost every situation. It is a sign of failed pro-jects. It can also warn about a great upcoming problem that will need to be dealt with. The Tower can be a symbol of conflict, disagreement, and destruction. In this con-text, it is a symbol of unpleasant events: bankruptcy, accident, breakup, failure, phys-ical or psychological weakness...!You  thus  need  to  be  extremely  careful  whenever  this  card  is  drawn.  It  heralds  the  arrival of unexpected events that will be hard to cope with. Any aspect of life might be affected: Love, Work, Health, Money, Luck... leading to troubled times. The Tower can also be a sign of disagreement within your family, or in your relation-ships with your friends, colleagues, or anyone you are in frequent contact with.Drawing  the  Tower  indicated  that  the  lessons  of  your  past  failures  have  yet  to  be  learned. You might have to deal with the consequences of your mistakes and pay a heavy price if you fail to learn something from them. The Tower can be positive when you use is as an excuse to heed its warning. As the saying goes, “Forewarned is forearmed”! At  least  you  have  been  warned.  In  order  to  get  out  of  these  expected  hurdles,  you  will need to control your psychic energy and focus it properly... by making relevant changes to your plans, and putting them into practice. This is how you will avoid the seemingly negative influence of a Tower draw. The  positive  aspect  that  can  be  drawn  from  the  Tower  is  that  it  acts  as  a  warning  against potential dangers. This warning will not prevent the arrival of these problems, but will let you better handle their consequences if you act in the right way and follow the good resolutions you have made.
XVII - The Star: This arcanum represents a young naked girl, her left knee on the ground, and her right foot in the water.The young lady is pouring water equally on the ground and in the pond. This water represents the Water of Life that flows within us, irrigating the material world repre-sented by the earth, and the psychic world represented by the pond.A  yellow  star  with  eight  points  shines  above  her  head,  with seven white stars (also with eight points) represent-ing the Light of Truth.This arcanum symbolizes the energy and vitality of youth, and  the  Star  represents  the  hope  that  can  be  found  in  everyone,  to  rise  above  their  material  conditions  and  reach  the  highest  spheres  of  spirituality and access eternal life.This arcanum means that in order to become immortal, you need to follow the sign sent through the divine Light represented by the stars. Following such divine aspirations will guide that person to the highest spheres where Supreme Truth will be unveiled.The Star is a symbol of hope, harmony, and gentleness. It will guide you to the fulfill-ment of your aspirations. If your efforts are sincere then they will lead you to happiness and success. When you draw the Star in a spread, it means that you need to strongly believe in what you want to achieve, and lady luck will smile. It is important to have faith in whatever you are doing. If you have the Star in a reading, you can believe in... your lucky star! The path of gen-tleness and confidence will lead you straight to success. You will benefit from a positive and protective influence and will lead you to the fulfill-ment of your wishes. The Star is one of the most auspicious signs of good fortune. In a reading, it is an opportunity to express what is best in you, your conscious and uncon-scious qualities. You will also express a potential that might have been left untapped! The Star heralds the improvement of your relationship skills and foreshadows an im-portant professional or romantic meeting. This is a turning point in your life. If you handle it well, your existence might change drastically. Under the Star’s protection you will develop your harmony. It facilitates communication, deals, and smoothes out potential obstacles. The Star offers protection against danger, and helps you overcome your problems. It makes it easier to feel positive emo-tions, and can rekindle a dying flame. It could be a sign of new love, even if you thought you would never fall in love again, or if you had been living alone for a long while.The Star can also facilitate inspiration, professionally or artistically. It is a rare sign of enhanced and exceptional creativity. It also heralds the end of troubles or challenges that you had a hard time dealing with. It symbolizes the restoration of hope and trust.
XVIII - The Moon: The arcanum of the Moon deals with the mind and imagination. The path on the center of the card symbolizes the road that must be taken to cross the pillars defining access  to  the  worlds  of  Supreme  Truth  hidden  behind  the veil of appearances.The face on the moon is calm, a sign of the great serenity that can fill your mind when it rises above the turpitudes of everyday life.This is achievable when you go beyond your own ideas and  material  conceptions,  going  further  than  the  usual  perceptions of the senses.The dog and the wolf represent the fear of the unknown, your animal nature, and the fear that usually prevents you from going beyond your own limitations.The Moon in a drawing advises the use of dreams and intuition to break the chains of limitations from the material world.Someone  drawing  this  arcanum  might  struggle  with  apathy,  slowing  down  their  thoughts and physical movements. It will be hard to act, seduced by nonchalance, daydreaming, or a sudden drop in en-thusiasm or vitality.Doing anything will look like a great challenge, even for common everyday actions, as it will be hard to find the energy you need.The Moon is also a symbol of imagination and intuition that can set you free from your own limitations. Someone drawing the Moon in a spread should have a sharp intuition, and their mind will burst with creativity. However, the Moon is also the world of dreams, illusions, fantasies, and lies. It might in-dicate that you should beware when imagination runs too wild, and thus keep it in check. Indeed, it is important to keep a certain level of reflection before you let yourself be carried away by illusions regarding potential solutions to your problems. The fertile imagination symbolized by the Moon does not mean you should withdraw to an imaginary world and refuse to deal with your problems, but that using your crea-tivity is a way to actually solve them. This drawing also indicates a favorable intellectual period where you can find solutions to problems that seemed impossible to overcome. The Moon favors every activity or profession that uses your imagination: the world of artistic creation, advertising, media content providers... Beware of your own moral limitations before your try to fulfill your desires. Do not un-dertake any action that might harm someone else, or you might have a price to pay in return. Any evil would eventually find its way back to you one way or another. Forbidden temptations will be very strong. Don’t fall into this trap urging you to ex-press your negative and dark aspects.Drawing this arcanum is a sign of a certain instability in social relationships, or human-itarian activities.The Moon can also highlight a difficult relationship with figures of authority, the admin-istration, or politics.The Moon is a sign of creative but boisterous times, because all your certitudes, preju-dices, and ready-made ideas will be challenged in every aspect of your life. The Moon urges you to get rid of the past and see the big picture in your life in order to avoid repeating past mistakes that had led you into a dead end. It can also herald an upcoming birth, which might be literal (a child) or figurative (intel-lectual rebirth, a new and more positive state of mind).
XIX - The Sun: The  main  character  represented  on  this  arcanum  is  a  child riding a white horse with a red standard.This  young  child  represents  the  transition  from  the  world of earthly reality to the higher divine world of Supreme Truth.He has been released from the contingencies of mate-rial life and gone through the wall of illusions (as repre-sented by the wall behind him).The symbolism in the child means that you need to find back the pure and innocent mind of childhood in order to get rid of false beliefs acquired in life.The  Sun  represents  the  supreme  Light  that  must  be  reached, but also the required awareness to do it. The restored childhood mind can thus help you get rid of your animal nature and reach inner harmony.Drawing the Sun is extremely favorable in a reading because it has a positive influ-ence in every domain: love, work, health, and money. The Sun is a sign of success and happiness in any endeavor. Obstacles are fading away before you without asking for a lot of efforts. Everything becomes easy as you find the required mental and physical resources to overcome any situation. You will also manage to fulfill your desires, even those that had been left unsatisfied for so long.You will enter a prosperous period, and you should make the most of it in order to improve your romantic, financial, or social situation. If you draw this arcanum, you will soon find numerous opportunities to improve your lot, and meet those who are most able to help you in that regard. This will grant you more confidence and willpower than you have ever experienced, and you should move from one success to the next. You might become quite popular or famous if you work in a public environment or in politics.Couples should strengthen their connection in a romantic aspect. Single people are likely to meet someone special. Sexuality should also be enhanced by this drawing that should provide you with boundless imagination and a lot of energy.The vitality enjoyed by the person concerned by the Sun arcanum in a reading will be proportional to the joy they will get from it. The Sun heralds a time of construction, where you can achieve your goals.The Sun urges you to overcome your own fears and anxiety, and change your life for the better in its light. It foreshadows a time of change and inner transformation that will affect your material life.
XX - Judgement: This arcanum represents the Last Judgment, the day of reckoning where the Angel blows a trumpet that calls the dead out of their graves.The dead seem happy and transfigured by their transfor-mation through death. They symbolize moving from the material  to  the  spiritual  word,  leaving  the  world  of  illu-sions and suffering on earth and achieving the ultimate liberation of the mind.The trumpet sounds like a warning representing the ne-cessity of being aware of your own limitations, and how important it is to go beyond them.Judgment  is  a  sign  of  impending  events  that  will  radi-cally change your life, in a good way. It is a symbol of enthusiasm, dynamism, and the swift and providential arrival of a radical transformation. This  forecast  change  will  allow  you  to  be  released  from  the  conditioning  and  habits  that can paralyze you or stifle your self-realization. You will ne more independent. You will get a freedom of action that will allow you to solve problems that used to bring you down or slow your personal evolution.If  you  listen  to  that  trumpet’s  sound,  you  will  experience  a  period  of  luck  and  great  inner vitality. You can expect happy upheavals in your life, strengthening your enthusi-asm and snowballing into a growth of your energy that will let you get further on the path of your evolution. Judgment is a symbol for psychic resurrection, a positive renewal of your state of mind and way of thinking that will affect your everyday life. It can also signal the end of a problem currently affecting you in a negative way, some-thing that might have been going on for quite a while. Drawing this arcanum will have positive effects on your personal, professional, or romantic relationships.Judgment indicates that you should soon fulfill one of your desires or needs, or a pro-ject that you have worked on for a while. Your intuition will lead you to new paths to be explored, even if it means facing the unknown. Trust your instincts if they lead you on that path, because they will know what is good for you. Drawing  the  Judgment  arcanum  means  that  in  order  to  change  your  existence,  you  should avoid repeating the same behavior that led to the problems you currently have to face. Act in a different way and you will see that it will change for the better!
XXI - The World: This  arcanum  represents  a  young  radiant  woman  sym-bolizing  the  perfection  of  the  world  and  the  universe,  something you can be aware of when you overcome the limitations of the human mind. The harmony of the uni-verse finally appears clearly then.This young woman also symbolizes the purity of the soul that you get once you are rid of all the illusions of earthly life, when you have actively contributed to the establish-ment of the kingdom of Good in the material world.Drawing the World is an extremely auspicious sign in every domain: Love, Health, Money, Work... The World indicates the arrival of a period of exceptional luck. When you draw this arcanum, you can expect the favors of Divine Providence in anything you do. Circumstances will be particularly favorable for your enlightenment and success, but you should not passively wait for it! You will need to take the initiative, but this will be easy to implement because you will easily find the right ideas that will facilitate the realization of your projects. If you want to travel, now is the right time for it because you will be under the protec-tion of the invisible worlds. The World in a tarot spread indicates that you are about to experience a great inner harmony that will allow you to make the right decisions. You  will  reach  a  rather  rare  and  exceptional  balance  between  your  thoughts,  words,  and actions that will all be in sync.The World facilitates communication in every domain. You will meet people who will be important for you. Any difficulty in expressing your thoughts will fade, leading you on a path of inner transformation.Any effort sincerely performed to do Good will be guided by a deep intuition that will suggest what is right for you. All your initiatives will be swiftly rewarded. However, you should make sure that you won’t  rest  on  your  laurels  and  take  the  easy  way  out  if  you  want  your  actions  to  be  crowned with success.Likewise, just because life is about to smile at you does not mean you should forget the limitations of the material world. Only commit to actions that you feel able to achieve. If you manage to be enthusiastic and realistic at the same time, happiness awaits you at the end of the road.